Prepare nextcloud storage docs for new authentication method (#18198)
opf/openproject: docs/system-admin-guide/integrations/nextcloud/two-way-oauth2/README.md

---
sidebar_navigation:

>   title: Setup Two-way OAuth 2.0 authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  title: Two-way OAuth 2.0 authentication setup
```

Author: Mh. I am indifferent about how we should write this, but I'd expect this to be consistent across SSO and and Two-way OAuth 2.0.

Right now your suggestion would make it inconsistent across the two. Should I update both to "setup as a suffix" or should I keep both at using "setup as a prefix"?

Author: I am going to merge this as-is now (i.e. with all your other suggestions applied) to unblock PRs that depend on the existence of the docs.

If we need to change this, I can still do it separately.

Reviewer: @NobodysNightmare I would be ok either way, but if we keep it up front, then i'd rather use the verb, so "Set up", instead of "Setup". 

SSO: yes, good point. I vote for consistency also and would also adjust it on the website and in user guide to "single sign-on".

>   priority: 600

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  priority: 800
```

description: Set up Two-way OAuth 2.0 authentication as the authentication method for your Nextcloud storage
keywords: Nextcloud file storage integration
---

> # Setup Two-way OAuth 2.0 authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Two-way OAuth 2.0 authentication setup
```

> This authentication mode will use access tokens provided by an OAuth application of either side of the integration between OpenProject and Nextcloud to authenticate requests performed in the name of users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This authentication mode will use access tokens provided by an OAuth application on either side of the integration between OpenProject and Nextcloud to authenticate requests performed in the name of users.
```

> This authentication mode will use access tokens provided by an OAuth application on either side of the integration between OpenProject and Nextcloud to authenticate requests performed in the name of users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This authentication mode uses access tokens provided by an OAuth application on either side of the integration between OpenProject and Nextcloud to authenticate requests performed in the name of users.
```

> You will have to perform configuration in OpenProject and in Nextcloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to perform configuration in OpenProject and in Nextcloud.
```

## 1. Enter OpenProject OAuth values in Nextcloud settings

After selecting and saving the authentication method in OpenProject, you will see a form with two text fields that show a **client ID** and a **client secret** that belong to the OAuth application that OpenProject has just automatically created.

> These values are needed to permit Nextcloud to connect to OpenProject.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These values are required to permit Nextcloud to connect to OpenProject.
```

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > These generated values are not accessible again after you close the window. Please do not navigate away from this page before copying them over to Nextcloud, as instructed below. Treat these values with care, as you would an important password. Please do not reveal them to anyone else.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> These generated values are not accessible again after you close the window. Please do not navigate away from this page before copying them over to Nextcloud, as instructed below. Treat these values with care, as you would an important password. Please do not share them with anyone.
```

![OpenProject generates OAuth values to copy over to Nextcloud](two_way_oauth2_setup_step_1.png)

> Go back to the browser tab where you were configuring the **OpenProject Integration** app. (We recommend you have two browser tabs open: the current one with OpenProject and the former one with Nextcloud).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go back to the browser tab where you were configuring the **OpenProject Integration** app. (We recommend keeping two browser tabs open: one for OpenProject and one for Nextcloud).
```

> Copy the two generated values (client ID and secret) from the OpenProject tab to the respective fields in Nextcloud, namely **OpenProject OAuth client ID** and **OpenProject OAuth client secret**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy the two generated values (client ID and secret) from the OpenProject tab into the corresponding fields in Nextcloud, namely **OpenProject OAuth client ID** and **OpenProject OAuth client secret**.
```

![OAuth values generated by OpenProject are entered into Nextcloud app configuration](two_way_oauth2_setup_step_2.png)

Once you have copied the values, click on **Save** to proceed to the next step.

## 2. Enter Nextcloud OAuth values in OpenProject

> In the page that appears, you will see new OAuth values that are once again generated automatically, but this time by Nextcloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the page that appears, you will see new OAuth values that are once again generated automatically, but this time by Nextcloud.
```

> On the page that appears, you will see new OAuth values that are once again generated automatically, but this time by Nextcloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the page that appears, you will see new OAuth values that are again generated automatically, this time by Nextcloud.
```

> OpenProject will need these values to be able to connect to your Nextcloud instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenProject will need these values to be able to connect with your Nextcloud instance.
```

> Much like in the previous step, you will need to copy these two generated values (**Nextcloud OAuth client ID** and **Nextcloud OAuth client secret**) and paste them into OpenProject.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As in the previous step, copy these two generated values (**Nextcloud OAuth client ID** and **Nextcloud OAuth client secret**) and paste them into OpenProject.
```

![Nextcloud also generates OAuth values that need to be copied to OpenProject](two_way_oauth2_setup_step_3.png)

> Navigate back to your OpenProject tab and click the **Done, continue** button on the screen you previously left it at. You will now see a screen where you will be able to enter the Nextcloud values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate back to your OpenProject tab and click the **Done, continue** button on the screen you previously left it. You will now see a screen where you will be able to enter the Nextcloud values.
```

> Navigate back to your OpenProject tab and click on the **Done, continue** button on the screen you previously left it at. You will now see a screen where you will be able to enter the Nextcloud values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate back to your OpenProject tab and click the **Done, continue** button on the screen you previously left it at. You will now see a screen where you will be able to enter the Nextcloud values.
```

![OpenProject_NC_OAuth_values](two_way_oauth2_setup_step_4.png)

Once you have entered the client ID and client secrets on this page, click on **Save and continue**.

> This wraps up the configuration of the authentication method. For details on the next step continue with the [general setup instructions](../#4-automatically-managed-project-folders).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This wraps up the configuration of the authentication method. For details on the next step, continue with the [general setup instructions](../#4-automatically-managed-project-folders).
```
